As we discussed in the first module of this course,
the two primary elements of the VA supply chain
are the goods and services provided to its customers.
Remember that many times these goods or services
are aiding our own internal VA customers,
and not external customers.
Goods can be stored in inventory, which can be an issue.
Too much inventory leads to excessive costs,
while insufficient inventory
leads to expedited orders and dissatisfied customers.
Examples of excessive costs include
the costs to purchase the items, storage of the item,
and of staff to manage the inventory process.
If you are on a budget
but spend money to purchase items that are not used readily,
then you limit what else you can purchase
because the money is tied up
into what was spent on the excess inventory.
If you have limited storage space in your inventory areas
and you have excess amounts of an item,
this will take up valuable space
that could be used for other items needed.
Staff would have been used
to purchase these items, receive items in,
transport to the storage area, and monitor.
If there is an excess that is not used,
that excess will sit in the primary storage area
and will have to be checked for expirations,
rotated, and counted.
This takes time and resources to complete.
On the other hand, having insufficient inventory
leads to excessive costs.
Orders have to be expedited,
and as a result the costs of the items increase,
and there could also be additional shipping
or freight charges incurred.
If this happens during weekends or off hours
then staff would be paid overtime
to be on site to receive and deliver the items
to the clinical staff for patient care.
If the items are not received in time, or at all,
then patient care cases, such as surgeries,
can be canceled, or even higher costs are incurred
rescheduling the procedures.
The biggest costs are having dissatisfied customers,
faith lost by clinical staff,
and the loss of patients to the hospital.
The need for equilibrium or balance is very important.
Services, on the other hand, cannot be stored in inventory.
For instance, medical staff provide services to patients
in the form of medical care and support.
The number of staff members available,
such as doctors and nurses, directly affects
the number of patients that can be cared for.
If too many staff members are scheduled,
there are excessive costs in salary and time
and much lower productivity.
If too few are scheduled,
patients cannot be cared for in a timely manner,
leading to canceled appointments or surgeries
and lost or dissatisfied customers.